Maura Weber
Unit 13 Elk Stack Project
Interview Question
Question 1: Cloud Access Control

How would you control access to a cloud network?

Controlling access to a cloud network is an important measure to maintain security of a network and because your cloud network is not on premises there are different security controls one must take. In project 1, I deployed a cloud network which required such access controls. 
First, I configured the cloud network in such a way that only one virtual machine was accessible through the Internet, this being the jump box provisioner. This secure architecture creates a fanning-in pattern in which the administrator only has one machine to monitor and secure since all public traffic is directed through this machine. It also significantly reduces the attack surface. 
Secondly, I created a security rule in my network security group that only allowed traffic to the jump box machine from my personal machine’s public IP address. This prohibits all other machines from accessing my cloud network. Thus the only machine vulnerable to attack is the jump box machine and the only way in which that vulnerability could be exploited is if an attacker was able to spoof my public IP address. I created a second rule to protect my web servers from unauthorized SSH connection. In this rule I only allowed SSH to the three web servers from the jumpbox virtual machine. In addition, the three web servers have been configured with SSH key access only, which is the most secure way to configure remote access. 
The third access control measure is a rule in place on the elk server network security. This rule only allows traffic to the elk server from my machine’s public IP address on ports 5601, 9200, 5044.

This solution is fairly scalable since you can easily add many more servers to the network security group and use the jumpbox to quickly configure new machines. An example of a better solution than a jump box would be the use of a virtual private network. A VPN creates a direct and encrypted connection between the local network and a remote (or cloud) network. With a VPN a user can remotely access resources such as corporate servers that are located on premises. I could not use a VPN for this project because I needed my public IP address to access Azure cloud network. Some disadvantages of using a VPN is that it slows your connection speed,the location of the VPN servers may alter internet content and connection speed, and finally VPNs tend to be costly. The best use case for a VPN is to connect remote users to a large corporate network because in this setting,corporate users typically don't need high bandwidth connection as most companies ban the use of streaming sites, users also expect certain sites to be blocked and cost is not an issue for a large corporate.